My career aspirations are not childhood dreams but rather a work of consistent absorption of knowledge and learning about my interest domain. It was all about finding my path and the journey started from my curiosity about Semiconductors. Growing curiosity and a normal penchant for science and especially physics and mathematics saw me opting for Electrical and Electronics Engineering for my under-graduation at XYZ University, Delhi. From thence started my understanding of the domain which slowly and gradually grew into admiration and then a strong passion in Power Systems. Now, with the help of a master’s degree in the chosen discipline from the ABC University, USA, I want to realise my aspiration of contributing to the area Power Systems in the Electronics domain.
Pursuing Electrical and Electronics Engineering was by far the wisest decision of my life for the subjects fell within the natural scope of things in my life. I was able to assimilate the information and readily implement the same in a variety of projects. While my performance was good in subjects throughout my graduation, I was effectively fascinated by Power Systems. Due to the strong affliction for Power Systems, I worked on my major project on Power System. The project completed under the mentorship of Prof Bakshi excellent appreciation and a ‘Bravo’ from the organisation, further instilling in me the confidence to keep working in the domain. More importantly, the work also presented to me the wide possibilities of the technology and left me desirous of learning more. The strong inclination guided me in the last semester as well when I opted for backend courses on Power Systems.
Learning about Power Systems, I knew I wished to make a career within the said domain and decided that I would gain a better understanding by pursuing masters in electrical engineering and becoming an expert within the sector. My humble beginnings offered me a modest living amidst strong respect for academic excellence. My grandfather, an English teacher, would often take out time to condition my mind and encourage me to take the path of education. Supported by equally informed parents, I succeeded throughout my school years in every domain. Such has been my journey that, I have the honour of being the Captain of the Cricket Tournament School Team. Moving with such a feathered cap, my graduation year was bound to have an illustrious tenure and as promised, it was.
In the upcoming paragraphs, the aspirant talks about his co-curricular and extracurricular activities. Have a look:
Like in school, I was as active as I could be both in and out of the class in the college as well. From being the Class Representative to the organiser of the Fresher’s Induction Programme for the 2016–17 batch, I ensured that I was always where the action was. My technical aptitude and acumen put me in the top place and I was the designated Event Coordinator of the Technical Paper Presentation during the college’s Cultural Festival. My participation further added to my mental aptitude with the skills like teamwork and leadership. Assisted by such attributes, I moved on towards my career choice and opted for a job which would help me with my aspirations. The experiences further gave me the opportunity which further ensured that I was selected in and joined PQRS Industries, Mumbai as an Engineer.
Over the past year, I have extensively led teams and learned the art of adoption, execution, direction, and implementation. My performance soon gave my manager the confidence and I was allowed to lead the team all by myself while my manager was transferred to another unit. My ability to handle the team, manage the technology and most importantly handle the various challenges has won me recognition in the organisation. This gave me a lot of opportunities to grow in my career. Based on my experiences, I have learned the need for learning something new and relevant as well as practising to innovate in the field. I believe that I have now reached the stage where I must now further enrich my knowledge.
After my masters, I would work as a Senior Engineer in a firm like my current employer where I would be able to put together my fresh academic knowledge and old professional experience. It gives me great satisfaction in applying my knowledge, which I have learned untill now, to develop further understanding and solving practical problems. For me, no other profession promises creative satisfaction and intellectual independence, like the industry I am presently in, does. Ten years down the line, I see myself working as part of a leading research group, contributing my bit to the field of Power Engineering.
